---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Igniting the fire
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-08-31
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Hi ITM 352,

I am Preetha one of your classmates for this semester.

As long as I can rememberI have been surrounded by technologies. In the beginning it was TV but as I grew older, with more technological advancements, I was surrounded with laptops, tablets and smartphones. Thus, from an early age, I became fascinated with the mechanics behind how these devices worked. As a child, I remember constantly asking about how the games that I played were made and how the whole process worked. 

However, my interest in Management Information System flourished only after taking a business course in my junior year of high school. This class opened my eyes to the rise of e-commerce and the overall interlinks of the business world to our regular lives. Furthermore, this high school class showed me that although the business world is diverse in the different ventures that it undertakes, the underlyning themes that connects businesses is the intetion of serving for the betterment of people. Due to this, I had an epiphany that I wanted to work on something that involved my inate love for technology as well as my newfound interest in working with business that help people in the long run. Thus after some research, MIS seemed to be the course that tapped  both my interests.

Through this ITM course, I hope to build upon my rudementary knowledge on the ways websites and webpages are ran, as well as understand what really goes behind coding. Furthermre, I hope to learn full feteched the skill sets to design, create and bring to life games that people can play. Moreover, I wish to understand what it takes to have good programming skills and attain these skills over time. 



