---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 2 Reflection
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-12-05
labels:
  - Report
---

1) Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

In Assignment 2, we were asked to improve the e-commerce website that we created in our Assignment 1. More specefically, our website should be designed so that once the customers select the goods that they would like to purchase from our store, they would have to either login or register to see their invoice. If the customers already have an account they would have to provide us with their username and password to verify that they are in our system. However, if they are not in our system they have the opportunity to register with us by providing us their fullname, the username they would like to be addressed with, their password, retyping their password for verification and an email to tie everything together. Furthermore, once the customers go through the corrects channels to register or login, they would be greeted while receiving their invoice. To get more information about this assignment, please click [here](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html)

2) What did you learn from this assignment?

If there is one thing, I learned through this assignment it is that patcience is the key. There were many times during this assignment where I just couldn't get the login page or the registration page to load properlt meeting all the requirements. However, I stuck through it and I think it paid off. Furthermore, this assignment made me better understand serve side and the different ways to manage it. Additionally, this assignment forced me to realize that there are many things that we simply don't have enough time in class to cover, so to be trully competent I have to explore on my own, thus Google is an important asset.

3) Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

For Assignment 2 I worked with Shelah Marie Cruz. I believe that I did quite more on the project than my partner. If I were to put a number I would say I did 80% of the work whereas my partner did the remaining 20%. This is because I worked on personalization, security, validation, and returning error message while my partner checked what we did. Nevertheless, it was helpful to have a partner go over and troubleshoot everytime the validation didn't yield the correct results.

4) How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

There were several times I needed help with the assignment. Most of these times I got assistance from Professor Port. However, the times that he wasn't free I would either search online or work together with my classmates to troubleshoot the problem. The main thing that I need assistance with was the data validation and error flags. 

5) How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?

This assignment was different from the previous assignment because we had to store the order information from the products page and cary it through the login/registration page to get to the invoice. Furthermore, there was tedious validation as well as personalization and security. Other than that, pretty much else remained the same from the assignment 1. 

6) Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

Although we had more time to complete assignment 2 than we had for assignment 1, I found myself spending a lot more time doing this assignment. This is simply because there was a lot more component to this project. If I were to break it down to percentage of how much time I spend focusing on each aspect of the assignment I would have to allocate about 45% thinking about what I had to do, another 25% writing the actual code and the remaing 30% testing and debugging. However, thinking about how to approach the project took the longest time because I had refer back to previous labs as well as making it work by adding materials/content/code to what I had for assignment  1. 

7) Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

One thing that was really helpful was the fact that I could refer back to my labs and follow it as a template for what I was doing for my project. However, writing the code for validation gave me the most trouble because I had to look up/ consult my friends on the functions of a certain code. Moreover, I was fortunate enough to meet up with Professor Port in multiple occasions to troubleshoot/ work with him to fill the gaps in my knowledge as well as the code itself.

8) If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

If there is one thing that I would have done differently, the first in starting the project would have to read the documentation for each function to know exactly their role in getting my webpage to work. Furthermore, I wish I could have started a little earlier so that I would have more time to relax and finish the project, instead of rushing through it even though I finish the assignment on time. I think if I had done that I could have had more time to play around with the CSS and make it look pleasing instead of just meeting the requirements.
