
Describe the web-application you intend to build (in detail please!)
Website Idea: Our website is based off of Golden Key’s need for a points system tracker rather than individually emailing members about their current points. A little background into Golden Key is that this organization is an international honour society that gives opportunities to students to volunteer, gain leadership skills and participate in socials/other events. In the club, there is a points system where if you earn a certain amount of points, you can reach either active, key or golden status. Points are determined by your participation in various events. For the site specifically, we plan to implement the following to fulfill the needs of Golden Key. 
Homepage for Golden Key’s Point System and displays the following picture below
Shows the top 3 users with the most amount of points (a 6 digit username will be displayed for anonymity along with their respective points 
Button that takes them to login page
Multiple dynamically created and interactive web page created through having a time display and countdown to the next event 

A Login Page: There will be two options to login…
Webmaster Login (Form processing and validation of entries): When the webmaster logins, they will be able to register new members into the points system and add points to their accounts. Once logged in, they will be directed to a page that gives them three buttons that direct them to different pages. The new user registration page, points addition page or list members page. 
Member Login(Cookies/Sessions), (Form processing and validation of entries: Members input their login info and get sent to a page displaying the amount of points. (Cookies/Sessions)
Total Points Page
Contains the users total points and what status they are
Lists the total amount of community service, fundraisers, meetings and socials they participated in. 
Next to the following categories lists the points earned for each category
How many more points needed to reach the next status
New User Registration Page (File I/O to store new user data)
The webmaster will input the following data for a new member
6 digit username
Password
Full Name

Since the club has members emails, this information containing their 6 digit username and password will be sent to their email through the Golden Key’s personal email
Points Addition Page
The webmaster will be shown to a page that displays each event category(meetings, community service events etc.). From there, they can input the number of events attended in each category and total amount of points earned. This will update the  members page when the member logs in 
Display current points of member
List Members Page
Lists all users full name, number of events attended and points 
Webmaster Main Page
Shows three buttons that direct them to different pages. The new user registration page, points addition page or list members page.
Success Page
Shown when the webmaster successfully adds a new user or adds points
Back button to webmaster main page
Pages that will not be shown on site but are required for the site to function
User Data_JS(File I/O) ( Multi-dimensional arrays) (Loops to display data)
All new member registration data
Events/point JS (File I/O) ( Multi-dimensional arrays) (Loops to display data)
Store event/points data
Server.js (Validation of Entries)
Validations
Validations of password, email and username for registration data 
Validation of correct username and password 
Main CSS Page to make things pretty
As needed, add in other formatting details through the HTML pages
*Certain details subject to change if cannot be completed by deadline
*After much thought and due to the small amount of members and for simplicity, we will not be using a database for this assignment as of now. 
Other things to note…
	Custom Functions will be majority in the server and in other html pages as needed
	Conditionals  will be majority in the server and in other html pages as needed
Will include the following…
 
2. Indicate how you expect the application will make use of the required technical complexity items (e.g. file I/O, sessions, multi-dimensional arrays, etc.)
Please see the red to see how we will use the required technical complexity items 
3. What is your plan to ensure you successfully complete your project before the end of the semester?
To ensure that we successfully complete our project by the deadline, we plan to focus on the hard portions of our idea first which include of keeping data and passing it from the webmaster to the GK member when the webmaster updates it to when the member logs in. Additionally, we want to try to figure out how to constantly update points when members attend different events. From there, we will do the simpler parts which range of creating all the other html pages that contain functions, validations and etc learned from the previous assignments. Then we will lastly do the CSS page to make our site nice. 
4. What progress have you made so far and what is left for you to do?
Currently, we have a set plan on the application that we are creating for our Assignment 4 as well as creating the foundation for the  server.js page. We still have to create all the other pages stated above.
