---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Basics Technical Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-17
labels:
  - WODs
---
9/15/19

Doing my first WOD was one of a kind experience. Sure, I have worked with HTML and CSS before, but never using a code runner, such as VS Code, nor was I aware of the intricacies that went into writing and developing codes. Furthermore, after my first stab at using VS Code I realized that to have a good footing on coding, one must be proactive and play with the different functions within the applications. Taking this into account, I started the WOD’s with the intention that I would do each one multiple times. Although, I timed my first attempts for BrowserHistory1, BrowserHistory2 and BrowserHistory3, I wasn’t really concerned about my efficiency, instead my goal was to understand the concept in terms of visual code. Due to this, my first attempts for the three different browser history assignment exceeded by long shot the recommended time. In fact it took me 32 minutes to complete BrowserHistory1 the first time around. It was only on my third time of trying and manipulating the different layout and portions within the html document that I was able to reduce my time to 14 minutes, a little over half my original speed. 

Similarly, I took my time doing BrowserHistory2, the first time around it took me about 25 minutes and after the second time I was able to cut it down to 12 minutes. However, the one thing that I struggled with the BrowserHistory2 was linking the html file to CSS. For the longest time I had the hardest time using the correct format in the head portion of the html file where html is supposed to link. It was only refreshing my memory, after watching the screencast that I realized that I had to define the type of file that I was linking. Similarly, prior to watching the video, I had defined the font for the headings only in the CSS but realized that I had to make a link to the original source also in the html file. Lastly, the one thing that stood out to me from BrowserHistory2 is that defining attributes in html is different from defining attributes in CSS. For example in html we have to use <> to define attribute in html whereas we have to use {} in CSS. It is only after couple tries that I had this concept clear.

Personally, I found BrowserHistory3 to be a little easier than BrowserHistory1 and BrowserHistory2. This might simply be because there was less to do in the last one and was more geared towards the general look of the webpage. Thus, I was able to complete BrowserHistory3 in 12 minutes the first time and 7 minutes when I did it the second time around. Nevertheless, BrowserHistory3 taught me more about wrapping of texts and creating columns along with manipulating the looks of the navigation bar. If there is one thing that I learned from my first WOD is that although it is important to do these tasks in a timely fashion, we have to first understand the steps and the methods by which we are manipulating the code to get there. 

9/26/19

Browser History6 was definetly interseting but as I see it, it required a lot of work and refferencing back to previous materials. Thus, in an effort to prepare for this WOD I looked at the coding that I had done for the previous three Browser Histories. Furthermore, this WOD is an addendum from what we did in the previous WOD because it incorporated much of the recent materials that we have covered in the labs, primarily the usage of JavaScript. This practical exercise showed us how we can use the tools of JavaSript to manipulate and adjust out CSS styling while using buttons and hover images as the interface. More information on the Browser History and the set skills that we learned can be found [here](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/040.dynamic-web-pages/experience-browserhistory6.html).

In addition to reviewing the coding for the prior three browsing histories, I also watched the screencasts for the respective browser histories to prepare for this Browser History. Furthermore, I read the instructions to the Browser History 6 thoroughly ahead of time and realized that revisting SmartPhoneProducts1_1 folder from Lab3 might be an efficient technique to better grasp the materials explored since it was in that Lab that we were first introduced to buttons and making efficient use of them to give a pleasing asthetic to anyone who wishes to explore the site that we are creating, the one thing that I had not done the previos time. 

Although looking at multiple resources before sitting down to do the WOD, it was still a challenge for me. This was partly due to me struggling with simple mistakes like forgetting to link the different pages amongst themselves and other times carelessly looking past putting the semicolon at the end of the command. Neverthelessly, the thing that was of major help was reffering back to the assignment sheet and reading the instructions carefully. In addition, reviewing the different codes from the previous WOD's helped me to quickly scan over my mistakes and fix the numerous areas within the Browser History that I stumbled over. However, the one thing that made me do the Browser History 6 multiple times was the onclick and onmouseover functions. In fact, it was here that I struggled and went over DNF time, thus I had to watch the screencast to get the functions to work. It turned out that I hadn't definined the div id to be "imgbox" thus, it was returning me errors and the button was not working. However, after watching the screencast and attempting to do the WOD from scratch, I was able to understand what I was doing and within time. Moreover, after getting the concept down, I redid the WOD several other times, so that I would get practice when the material is still fresh in my head. This is another thing I did differently in this WOD than in the previous WODs. Neverthless, there is always room for improvement and in the next WOD I am planning on having programming websites that have cheat sheets to coding, such as W3, open so that I can refer to it instead of going way over the DNF time and having to rely on the screencast to help me get through the WODs on time. 

WOD
Link to [WODs](https://github.com/preethapant/ITM352_F19_REPO/tree/master/WODs)
