---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-11-18
labels:
  - Report
---
I'm not going to lie, this class has been a mixture of great excitment and new opportunities and at times a mind boggling challenge. Nevertheless, I have attained a whirlwind of knowledge and deep understanding for the subject matter in the last four months than I have ever had before. Prior to taking this course I was aware of the different programming languages, such as JavaScript, C++, Python and more that are used to develop pages along with a varitety of other functions but I didn't know how to manipulate it and use these different functions to create something worthwhile and usable. To be honest, it probably would be hard to master all the different types of programmming languages but at least understanding JavaScript and its many functionalities is a start and I hope gaining these valuable skills will be an asset for the future. 

My programming skills have greatly improved. I completly agree with this statement. In the beginning I could only list the different programming languages but in reality didnt undestand what they were and how the function to create the innovative and necessary tasks required to make an effective/ functioning resource. However four months in, I am able to create a webpage by manipulate different functions, creating strings through concatenation, effectively using loops to display items in an array among others as was needed in Assignment 1.

I am enthusiastic about programming. This statement also holds to be true. I consider myself to be a curious person always seeking different avenues to fullfill my intersests. I find the W3School reading really interesting, more specefically, trying/ fiddling around with the demos on the reading helped me to understand how the concepts can be applied in a much larger context. Furthermore, one thing that I enjoy about programming is the deep satisfaction that I feel once I understand a cfoncept/ get past a hurdle that I have been stuck on for way too long. 

I can do the practice WODs without looking at the screencast solutions. Although I would like to agree fully with this statement that is not entirely the case, there were some WODs I didnt need the screencast whereas others I was confused and didn't know where to begin. The first few WODs, primarily the BrowserHistory WODs, I was confident in what I was doing and only watched the screenscasts towards the end to fill any gaps in my understanding. However, the later WODs, ones that included the Invoices were a challange to me. For those WODs I easily surpassed the DNF time during my first time and even later having reffered to the screencast would take me a whilr to grasp the concept. However, I am really thankful to the screencast because I could pause,process and even rewind/rewatch the WODs to understand the reason certain code was being applied to understand the underlying concept.

The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence. I attest to this 100%. The way I view it the labs are introduction to applying the new concept material that we read the previous night. This flip classroom stratergy allows us to have a general/ base understanding through the readings but as a visual learner I find it very helpful that we do the labs together in class. Furthermore, there were several times when I read about the materials from W3Schools and didn't fully understand how we could apply it but when I come to class and Professor Port goes over the readings as we are applying it to the labs I am able to connect the dots and have a better understanding of their purpose. With that being said, recently I have felt like we are speeding through the labs to complete them before time runs out and I am not understanding it as quickly as I used to in the beginning. This is partly because we are adding new/challing skills to our base.

I feel ready to move to the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications). To be complety honset I feel that I havent fully grasped the last couple labs and I know that more complex programming is building upon what we know now. As of right now I personally feel that I need a luttle more practice on server side processing. Neverthelsee, I believe that I can ultimately catch up and be confident in tackling the next steps in this programming journey.

Although I am keen in learning the different ways one example/problem can be done, I feel that learning one method in depth would be a better tactic to better understand the material. This is because we are getting bits and pieces of many different ways the problem could be approached, thus leaving me confused on exactly what method would be the best fit to address the requirement. Although, I know that Laulima is primarily used for grading I feel that it would be helpful to put the master schedule there so that I can easily check when and what assignments are looming as I am checking Laulima to submit labs, Assignements, complete quizzes, etc. Another way that I feel the class could be improved is by allowing the students in advance to know what the exact concepts the course would be covering and giving the students a list of reccommended subject matter knowledge the student can pursue in their own time to give them an upper hand when actually getting down to apply and understand the course material. 

With that being said there are few things that are really working for me. I firstly admire that the professors are allowing ample time to visit them one-on-one to fill any remaing gaps in knowledge after exhausting all the other resourses. I find that the reading materials especially W3School is very helpful in getting me to understand the materials. I also like the slides and the screencasts because we have a clear understanding of what the proffessors expect us to know following each lesson. In addition, the easiness of being able to replay the screencasts to help us understand the concepts is extremely helpful. Furthermore, I loved the WODs because it helped to reinforce what we learned in class, I hope that we do more of the WODs because it helps me feel more confident about the material I am learning as I am tying different concepts. 
